thomasgauvin: add examples to workers kv (#20655)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/kv/examples/workers-kv-to-serve-assets.mdx

---
type: example
summary: Store static assets in Workers KV and serve them from a Worker application with low-latency and high-throughput
tags:
  - KV
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Store and retrieve static assets
sidebar:
  order: 4
description: Example of how to use Workers KV to store static assets
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

By storing static assets in Workers KV, you can retrieve these assets globally with low-latency and high throughput. You can then serve these assets directly, or use them to dynamically generate responses. This can be useful when serving files and images, or when generating dynamic HTML responses from static assets such as translations.

:::note[Note]
With [Workers KV](/kv), you can access, edit and store assets directly from your [Worker](/workers). If you need to serve assets as part of a front-end or full-stack web application, consider using [Cloudflare Pages](/pages/) or [Workers static assets](/workers/static-assets/), which provide a purpose-built deployment experience for web applications and their assets.
:::

## Write static assets to Workers KV using Wrangler

> To store static assets in Workers KV, you can use the [Wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/) (commonly used during development), the [Workers KV binding](/kv/concepts/kv-bindings/) from a Workers application, or the [Workers KV REST API](/api/resources/kv/subresources/namespaces/methods/list/) (commonly used to access Workers KV from an external application). We'll demonstrate how to use the Wrangler CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store static assets in Workers KV, you can use the [Wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/) (commonly used during development), the [Workers KV binding](/kv/concepts/kv-bindings/) from a Workers application, or the [Workers KV REST API](/api/resources/kv/subresources/namespaces/methods/list/) (commonly used to access Workers KV from an external application). We will demonstrate how to use the Wrangler CLI.
```

> For this scenario, we'll be storing a sample HTML file within our Workers KV store. Create a new file `index.html` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this scenario, we will store a sample HTML file within our Workers KV store.

Create a new file `index.html` with the following content:
```

    			status: 400
    		})
    	}

    	// Get the mimetype from the key path
    	const extension = key.split('.').pop();
    	let mimeType = mime.getType(key) || "text/plain";
    	if (mimeType.startsWith("text") || mimeType === "application/javascript") {
    		mimeType += "; charset=utf-8";
    	}

    	// Get the value from the Workers KV store and return it if found
    	const value = await env.assets.get(key, 'arrayBuffer')
    	if(!value){
    		return new Response("Not found", {
    			status: 404
    		})
    	}

    	// Return the response from the Workers application with the value from the KV store
    	return new Response(value, {
    		status: 200,
    		headers: new Headers({
    			"Content-Type": mimeType
    		})
    	});
    },

} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;

````
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="wrangler.jsonc">
```json
{
	"$schema": "node_modules/wrangler/config-schema.json",
	"name": "<ENTER_WORKER_NAME>",
	"main": "src/index.ts",
	"compatibility_date": "2025-03-03",
	"observability": {
		"enabled": true
	},
	"kv_namespaces": [
		{
			"binding": "assets",
			"id": "<YOUR_BINDING_ID>"
		}
	]
}
````

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> This code parses the key name for the key-value pair to fetch from the HTTP request. Then, it determines the proper MIME type for the response to indicate to the browser how to handle the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code parses the key name for the key-value pair to fetch from the HTTP request. Then, it determines the proper MIME type for the response to inform the browser how to handle the response.
```

To retrieve the value from the KV store, this code uses `arrayBuffer` to properly handle binary data such as images, documents, and video/audio files.

Given a sample key-value pair with key `index.html` with value containing some HTML content in our Workers KV namespace store, we can access our Workers application
at `https://<YOUR-WORKER-HOSTNAME>/index.html` to see the contents of the `index.html` file.

Try it out with an image or a document and you will see that this Worker is also properly serving those assets from KV.

## Generate dynamic responses from your key-value pairs

In addition to serving static assets, we can also generate dynamic HTML or API responses based on the values stored in our KV store.

> Start by creating this file in the root of your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start by creating this file in the root of your project:
```

> Open a terminal and enter the following KV command to create a KV entry for the translations file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open a terminal and enter the following KV command to create a KV entry for the translations file:
```

```sh
npx wrangler kv key put hello-world.json --path hello-world.json --namespace-id=<ENTER_NAMESPACE_ID_HERE>
```

> Update your Workers code to add logic to serve a translated HTML file based on the language of the Accept-Language header of the request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Update your Workers code to add logic to serve a translated HTML file based on the language of the Accept-Language header of the request:
```
